Docgen (#68)
gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders: README.md

<!-- GENERATED CODE - DO NOT ALTER THIS OR THE FOLLOWING LINES -->
# Transform Headers

[![Gravitee.io](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Available%20at&message=Gravitee.io&color=1EC9D2)](https://download.gravitee.io/#graviteeio-apim/plugins/policies/gravitee-policy-transform-headers/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transform-headers/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)
[![Releases](https://img.shields.io/badge/semantic--release-conventional%20commits-e10079?logo=semantic-release)](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transform-headers/releases)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/gravitee-io/gravitee-transform-headers.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/gravitee-io/gravitee-transform-headers)

## Overview
You can use the `transform-headers` policy to override headers in incoming or outgoing traffic.

### Execution order
Configured transformations headers are executed in the following order:

1. Set / Replace headers
2. Append values to existing headers (will add it if absent)
3. Remove headers
4. Keep only whitelisted headers

> ### Removal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Header removal
```

> * Headers to removed include added/appended one by this policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Headers added/appended by this policy can be removed
```

> * Whitelisting applies also to added/appended headers by this policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Whitelisting applies to headers added/appended by this policy
```

> ### Native APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Appending a list of values for a given header is not supported for Native APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Phases
The phases checked below are supported by the `transform-headers` policy:

### Compatible with API type:

* `PROXY`
* `MESSAGE`
* `NATIVE KAFKA`

### Can be used in flow phases:

* Publish
* Subscribe
* Request
* Response

## Compatibility matrix
Strikethrough line are deprecated versions

| Plugin version| APIM |
| --- | ---  |
|4.x|4.6.x to latest |
|3.x|4.0.x to 4.5.x |
|~~1.x~~|~~3.x~~ |

## Configuration Options

> #### 

Reviewer: Instead of H4 this should be a bolded table title, e.g., **General headers**

| Name <br>`json name`  | Type <br>(constraint)  | Mandatory  | Default  | Supports <br>EL  | Supports <br>Secrets | Description  |
|:----------------------|:-----------------------|:----------:|:---------|:----------------:|:--------------------:|:-------------|

> | Set / Replace headers<br>`addHeaders`| array|  | |  |  | Values defined here will be replaced if a header with the same name is already defined in the request.<br/>See "Set / Replace headers" section|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Set/replace headers<br>`addHeaders`| array|  | |  |  | Values defined here will be replaced if a header with the same name is already defined in the request.<br/>See "Set/replace headers" section.|
```

Reviewer: @benoitgravitee should this mean the values defined here replace the existing values?

> | Append headers<br>`appendHeaders`| array|  | |  |  | Similar to set / Replace headers, but the values will be appended instead of being replaced if a header with the same name is already defined in the request. Multiple entries can be used to append several values to the same header name.<br/>See "Append headers" section|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Append headers<br>`appendHeaders`| array|  | |  |  | Similar to set/replace headers, but the values will be appended instead of replaced if a header with the same name is already defined in the request. Multiple entries can be used to append several values to the same header name.<br/>See "Append headers" section.|
```

| Remove headers<br>`removeHeaders`| array|  | |  |  | |
| Scope<br>`scope`| enum (string)|  | `REQUEST`|  |  | Select phase to execute the policy.<br>Values: `REQUEST` `RESPONSE` `REQUEST_CONTENT` `RESPONSE_CONTENT`|
| Headers to keep<br>`whitelistHeaders`| array|  | |  |  | Works like a whitelist. All other headers will be removed.|

> #### Set / Replace headers (Array)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Set/replace headers (array)**
```

| Name <br>`json name`  | Type <br>(constraint)  | Mandatory  | Default  | Supports <br>EL  | Supports <br>Secrets | Description  |
|:----------------------|:-----------------------|:----------:|:---------|:----------------:|:--------------------:|:-------------|
| Name<br>`name`| string<br>^\S*$| ✅| |  |  | Name of the header|
| Value<br>`value`| string| ✅| | ✅|  | Value of the header|

> #### Append headers (Array)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Append headers (array)**
```

  "flows": [
    {
      "name": "Common Flow",
      "enabled": true,
      "path-operator" : {
        "path" : "/",
        "operator" : "STARTS_WITH"
      },
      "request": [
        {
          "name": "Transform Headers",
          "enabled": true,
          "policy": "transform-headers",
          "configuration":
            {
                  "addHeaders": [
                      {
                          "name": "X-Product-Id",
                          "value": "{#jsonPath(#request.content, '$.product.id')}"
                      }
                  ],
                  "scope": "REQUEST_CONTENT"
              }
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

```

## Changelog

## [4.0.0](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/3.2.1...4.0.0) (2025-04-17)

#### Features

* handle KafkaPolicy on message request and response ([6c17501](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/6c17501578ae8e14ef91b5ebf2adbb2c512d6dd7))

#### BREAKING CHANGES

* requires APIM version 4.6.0 or later

### [3.2.1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/3.2.0...3.2.1) (2025-04-16)

#### Bug Fixes

> * revert BC commit -- "feat: handle KafkaPolicy on message request and response" ([855b5c2](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/855b5c2d83cf135f6893e359b20d3cfebf5c93d1))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Revert BC commit -- "feat: handle KafkaPolicy on message request and response" ([855b5c2](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/855b5c2d83cf135f6893e359b20d3cfebf5c93d1))
```

## [3.2.0](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/3.1.0...3.2.0) (2025-04-16)

> #### Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Features
```

> * handle KafkaPolicy on message request and response ([1002fe1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/1002fe1330db81cf603f40be4d0d54bb671f9197))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Handle KafkaPolicy on message request and response ([1002fe1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/1002fe1330db81cf603f40be4d0d54bb671f9197))
```

## [3.1.0](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/3.0.2...3.1.0) (2025-04-11)

> #### Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Features
```

> * add append header support ([da55073](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/da55073e6130d868658310cd1b8e019b11201d8b))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add append header support ([da55073](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/da55073e6130d868658310cd1b8e019b11201d8b))
```

> ### [3.0.2](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/3.0.1...3.0.2) (2023-11-13)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## [3.0.2](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/3.0.1...3.0.2) (2023-11-13)
```

> #### Bug Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bug Fixes
```

> * make acceptlist case insensitive ([4748140](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/47481407e287057e9bd67f2fed2df200666e2715))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make acceptlist case insensitive ([4748140](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/47481407e287057e9bd67f2fed2df200666e2715))
```

> ### [3.0.1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/3.0.0...3.0.1) (2023-07-20)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## [3.0.1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/3.0.0...3.0.1) (2023-07-20)
```

> #### Bug Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bug Fixes
```

> * update policy description ([09173df](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/09173dff95254f61d93131975d2e23861c166e88))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update policy description ([09173df](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/09173dff95254f61d93131975d2e23861c166e88))
```

## [3.0.0](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/2.0.1...3.0.0) (2023-07-18)

> #### Bug Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bug Fixes
```

> * remove extra compatibility matrix ([88c653d](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/88c653d638b1e012b1cdfbebaa17bf2048f35a89))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Remove extra compatibility matrix ([88c653d](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/88c653d638b1e012b1cdfbebaa17bf2048f35a89))
```

> * use new execution mode V4 Emulation ([7d17544](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/7d17544f84e529a6763dd1f2a3a3094e1b0e0903))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use new execution mode V4 Emulation ([7d17544](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/7d17544f84e529a6763dd1f2a3a3094e1b0e0903))
```

> #### chore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Chore
```

> * **deps:** update gravitee-parent ([84ca37a](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/84ca37a428c117eda89a21c8fa4b4740388f5115))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **deps:** Update gravitee-parent ([84ca37a](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/84ca37a428c117eda89a21c8fa4b4740388f5115))
```

> #### Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Features
```

> * clean and validate json schema for v4 ([da2a5bc](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/da2a5bc90dce520a88c98e8f860c770329c98fa9))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Clean and validate json schema for v4 ([da2a5bc](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/da2a5bc90dce520a88c98e8f860c770329c98fa9))
```

> #### BREAKING CHANGES

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### BREAKING CHANGES
```

> * **deps:** require Java17

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **deps:** Require Java17
```

## [2.1.0-alpha.2](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/2.1.0-alpha.1...2.1.0-alpha.2) (2023-06-29)

> #### Bug Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bug Fixes
```

> * use new execution mode V4 Emulation ([7d17544](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/7d17544f84e529a6763dd1f2a3a3094e1b0e0903))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use new execution mode V4 Emulation ([7d17544](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/7d17544f84e529a6763dd1f2a3a3094e1b0e0903))
```

## [2.1.0-alpha.1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/2.0.1...2.1.0-alpha.1) (2023-06-27)

> #### Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Features
```

> * clean and validate json schema for v4 ([da2a5bc](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/da2a5bc90dce520a88c98e8f860c770329c98fa9))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Clean and validate json schema for v4 ([da2a5bc](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/da2a5bc90dce520a88c98e8f860c770329c98fa9))
```

> ### [2.0.1-alpha.1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/2.0.0...2.0.1-alpha.1) (2023-06-22)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## [2.0.1-alpha.1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/2.0.0...2.0.1-alpha.1) (2023-06-22)
```

> #### Bug Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bug Fixes
```

> * add missing manifest information ([ee3bf0b](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/ee3bf0b28193a49c88e33bc064c76957cf3004f1))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add missing manifest information ([ee3bf0b](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/ee3bf0b28193a49c88e33bc064c76957cf3004f1))
```

> ### [2.0.1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/2.0.0...2.0.1) (2023-06-23)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## [2.0.1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/2.0.0...2.0.1) (2023-06-23)
```

> #### Bug Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bug Fixes
```

> * addition of supported API type & flow phase for this policy ([db53540](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/db53540a233f3be7b77e52d796ee0ea604b13088))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Addition of supported API type & flow phase for this policy ([db53540](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/db53540a233f3be7b77e52d796ee0ea604b13088))
```

## [2.0.0](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/1.10.0...2.0.0) (2023-06-22)

> #### Bug Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bug Fixes
```

> * fixed little typo in README.adoc ([e88ce29](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/e88ce298d390b4c850aa4c7566c4f5584f893461))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed little typo in README.adoc ([e88ce29](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/e88ce298d390b4c850aa4c7566c4f5584f893461))
```

> #### Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Features
```

> * add support of message level transformation ([f821384](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/f821384a56d88d4a8a8b0e2ee157eb1e100a1d14))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add support of message level transformation ([f821384](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/f821384a56d88d4a8a8b0e2ee157eb1e100a1d14))
```

> #### BREAKING CHANGES

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### BREAKING CHANGES
```

> * this version is using the latest dependencies introduced by Gravitee V4.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This version is using the latest dependencies introduced by Gravitee V4.0
```

## [1.10.0](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/1.9.1...1.10.0) (2022-03-24)

> #### Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Features
```

* Add support for request / response's payload to define HTTP headers values ([0cb0b2c](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/0cb0b2cb6aff125294f6fd4011dba74dd55db8ff)), closes [gravitee-io/issues#7333](https://github.com/gravitee-io/issues/issues/7333)

> ### [1.9.1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/1.9.0...1.9.1) (2022-01-24)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## [1.9.1](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/1.9.0...1.9.1) (2022-01-24)
```

> #### Bug Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bug Fixes
```

> * support arrays with null elements ([140bded](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/140bded708d9fee2b510fdb2ba67b3edffc811d4)), closes [gravitee-io/issues#5778](https://github.com/gravitee-io/issues/issues/5778)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Support arrays with null elements ([140bded](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/140bded708d9fee2b510fdb2ba67b3edffc811d4)), closes [gravitee-io/issues#5778](https://github.com/gravitee-io/issues/issues/5778)
```

* **transform-headers:** Provide more logs in case of EL error ([f4efd92](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/commit/f4efd9260888c8b57177da1993bd58a68c063335)), closes [gravitee-io/issues#6479](https://github.com/gravitee-io/issues/issues/6479)

## [1.9.0](https://github.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-transformheaders/compare/1.8.0...1.9.0) (2022-01-22)

> #### Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Features
```
